src/Instrumentation/PDO/README.md, before:

[![Releases](https://img.shields.io/badge/releases-purple)](https://github.com/opentelemetry-php/contrib-auto-pdo/releases)
[![Issues](https://img.shields.io/badge/issues-pink)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-php/issues)
[![Source](https://img.shields.io/badge/source-contrib-green)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-php-contrib/tree/main/src/Instrumentation/PDO)
[![Mirror](https://img.shields.io/badge/mirror-opentelemetry--php--contrib-blue)](https://github.com/opentelemetry-php/contrib-auto-pdo)
[![Latest Version](http://poser.pugx.org/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-auto-pdo/v/unstable)](https://packagist.org/packages/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-auto-pdo/)
[![Stable](http://poser.pugx.org/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-auto-pdo/v/stable)](https://packagist.org/packages/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-auto-pdo/)

This is a read-only subtree split of https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-php-contrib.

# OpenTelemetry PDO (PHP DataObjects) auto-instrumentation

Please read https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/php/automatic/ for instructions on how to
install and configure the extension and SDK.

## Overview
Auto-instrumentation hooks are registered via composer, and spans will automatically be created for
selected `PDO` and `PDOStatement` methods.

## Configuration

The extension can be disabled via [runtime configuration](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/php/sdk/#configuration):

```shell
OTEL_PHP_DISABLED_INSTRUMENTATIONS=pdo
```
                     
In case UI used to view telemetry data does not support links between spans (for example newrelic),
you can optionally enable setting db statements attribute to `fetchAll` and `execute` spans using 
configuration directive:
```
otel.instrumentation.pdo.distribute_statement_to_linked_spans = true
```
or environment variable:
```shell
OTEL_PHP_INSTRUMENTATION_PDO_DISTRIBUTE_STATEMENT_TO_LINKED_SPANS=true
```

### SQL Commenter feature
The [sqlcommenter](https://google.github.io/sqlcommenter/) feature can be enabled using configuration directive:
```
otel.instrumentation.pdo.sql_commenter = true
```
or environment variable:
```shell
OTEL_PHP_INSTRUMENTATION_PDO_SQL_COMMENTER=true
```
This feature by default will append a SQL comment to the query statement with the information about the code that executed the query.
The SQL comment can be configured to prepend to the query statement using the following configuration directive:
```
otel.instrumentation.pdo.sql_commenter.prepend = true
```
or environment variable:
```shell
OTEL_PHP_INSTRUMENTATION_PDO_SQL_COMMENTER_PREPEND=true
```
The modified query statement by default will not update `TraceAttributes::DB_QUERY_TEXT` due to high cardinality risk, but it can be configured using the following configuration directive:
```
otel.instrumentation.pdo.sql_commenter.attribute = true
```
or environment variable:
```shell
OTEL_PHP_INSTRUMENTATION_PDO_SQL_COMMENTER_ATTRIBUTE=true
```

Commit message:

Added database opt-in configuration

src/Instrumentation/PDO/README.md, after:

[![Releases](https://img.shields.io/badge/releases-purple)](https://github.com/opentelemetry-php/contrib-auto-pdo/releases)
[![Issues](https://img.shields.io/badge/issues-pink)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-php/issues)
[![Source](https://img.shields.io/badge/source-contrib-green)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-php-contrib/tree/main/src/Instrumentation/PDO)
[![Mirror](https://img.shields.io/badge/mirror-opentelemetry--php--contrib-blue)](https://github.com/opentelemetry-php/contrib-auto-pdo)
[![Latest Version](http://poser.pugx.org/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-auto-pdo/v/unstable)](https://packagist.org/packages/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-auto-pdo/)
[![Stable](http://poser.pugx.org/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-auto-pdo/v/stable)](https://packagist.org/packages/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-auto-pdo/)

This is a read-only subtree split of https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-php-contrib.

# OpenTelemetry PDO (PHP DataObjects) auto-instrumentation

Please read https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/php/automatic/ for instructions on how to
install and configure the extension and SDK.

## Overview
Auto-instrumentation hooks are registered via composer, and spans will automatically be created for
selected `PDO` and `PDOStatement` methods.

## Configuration

The extension can be disabled via [runtime configuration](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/instrumentation/php/sdk/#configuration):

```shell
OTEL_PHP_DISABLED_INSTRUMENTATIONS=pdo
```
                     
In case UI used to view telemetry data does not support links between spans (for example newrelic),
you can optionally enable setting db statements attribute to `fetchAll` and `execute` spans using 
configuration directive:
```
otel.instrumentation.pdo.distribute_statement_to_linked_spans = true
```
or environment variable:
```shell
OTEL_PHP_INSTRUMENTATION_PDO_DISTRIBUTE_STATEMENT_TO_LINKED_SPANS=true
```

### SQL Commenter feature
The [sqlcommenter](https://google.github.io/sqlcommenter/) feature can be enabled using configuration directive:
```
otel.instrumentation.pdo.sql_commenter = true
```
or environment variable:
```shell
OTEL_PHP_INSTRUMENTATION_PDO_SQL_COMMENTER=true
```
To select which database(s) to opt-in, specify the database(s) using configuration directive:

Valid values are `postgresql`, `mysql`, `sqlite`, `mssql`, `oracle`, `db2`, `other_sql` and `all` (default).

```
otel.instrumentation.pdo.sql_commenter.database[]=postgresql
otel.instrumentation.pdo.sql_commenter.database[]=mysql
```
or environment variable:
```shell
OTEL_PHP_INSTRUMENTATION_PDO_SQL_COMMENTER_DATABASE=postgresql,mysql
```

This feature by default will append a SQL comment to the query statement with the information about the code that executed the query.
The SQL comment can be configured to prepend to the query statement using the following configuration directive:
```
otel.instrumentation.pdo.sql_commenter.prepend = true
```
or environment variable:
```shell
OTEL_PHP_INSTRUMENTATION_PDO_SQL_COMMENTER_PREPEND=true
```
The modified query statement by default will not update `TraceAttributes::DB_QUERY_TEXT` due to high cardinality risk, but it can be configured using the following configuration directive:
```
otel.instrumentation.pdo.sql_commenter.attribute = true
```
or environment variable:
```shell
OTEL_PHP_INSTRUMENTATION_PDO_SQL_COMMENTER_ATTRIBUTE=true
```
